This.
Yo what's up everybody.
Mark pricer devs slopes dot com.
And welcome back to the coding party and this exciting video.
We're going to learn how to work with tables and tables interesting thing you actually don't see a lot
of tables being used anymore and each time they are used still completely valid.
But what's crazy is these to be used everywhere in the beginning because in the beginning we didn't
have things to style.
We couldn't we couldn't put things where we wanted them to be so we started using tables for padding
and for spacing and to put these things on the pages where we wanted them to be in a table literally
like a table with rows and columns just like an Excel spreadsheet.
OK.
That is what a table is in each T.M. Exactly.
And you can put data in it you can put whatever you want in images things like that.
So I'll show you how we're going to use a table and the opportunities are endless in how you want to
use them.
But we're going to just create let's say on a page you know where you can go to deficit of ZCom and
you can choose from some courses not just on the list of course as I want them kind of you know scattered
across like in a nice series of columns.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
So we've got our paragraph there.
So to create a table we're just going to say table.
All right.
And then you've got table rows inside of a table.
So what we're going to do and then table data.
So we're going to do is TR for table row.
OK.
So remember row column row column real column.
So a table row to yours is a row.
OK so think of the Excel one row always go down.
OK columns go from left to right.
So we've got a table row.
And what I want to do is create some columns in here so I say Tee-Tee.
And we're going to put a button in here and we're going to say iOS 10 course.
OK.
And as you can see we've got a nice little button there which is cool.
So there's Iowas 10 course and let's make a couple of other things.
You're just going to copy and paste these this table data.
These are columns again.
So with one row three columns and sort of the I was 10.
Course we're going to say Android of course and then we're gonna say unity three-D course.
OK.
Notice over here on the right hand side we've got three buttons here.
That's actually pretty cool.
If I do say so myself and let's go out and create another table row let's do another row of data.
I'm just going to copy this and paste it down here and again inside the button text.
I'll be changing the text here.
And what do I want to say.
I get unit three and say web course OK.
And then we're going to say nood API course.
The Course of us that would be a great course to take after you've finished this course and we've got
the angular two course which you know and you can take that one too after this course.
Pretty good.
Pretty good stuff in there actually.
So this is pretty cool.
We've got some buttons here and it's looking good in our nice little table.
We can play around some of the settings here actually on the table.
You want to.
You don't have to do it purely NCEA says you can play with a few things here such as the border.
So inside the table tag.
OK.
We're in the side the table tag there are some attributes that we can set inside this tag and such as
the border equals.
And what we want to say would if we said five Hey we got a ugly border there and sell padding.
We can set that cell padding equals say 25.
So I guess a nice spacing.
Now some padding.
OK.
And what is a cell spacing This is the space between the cells.
Say five.
OK.
Look at the difference.
OK it's that line and between the cell spacing.
OK.
Now this is pretty dang ugly.
I have to admit like I think it's I think it's pretty ugly but I think it's easily fixable if we just
take up the borders I want to say a border zero.
And look now we've got some nice core course buttons that are all aligned here.
And so what have we done so far.
OK we haven't done much.
We put in a table OK.
And inside a table we have a table row remember like Excel spreadsheets and you get confused.
What do I do.
Just think of Excel and then you know you have rows and columns rows go from top to bottom columns go
from left to right.
So inside of this row we have three columns.
OK I was 10 and wrote in unity and then another row.
So next one down well of course no the API coarsen angular course and we put these inside of a button.
Ok so that it's clickable you know because we're going to pretend like there's more web pages and you
could click and go to that web page.
OK.
It makes sense it's pretty cool.
Very cool stuff there so we've got our buttons here.
Cell padding 25.
That's kind of high.
It makes sense to bring it down.
Maybe two or five say 10 that's a little bit better.
Cool.
So there's our stuff cell spacing you know we'll leave it right about there anyway.
So there's your table here now maybe you're thinking to yourself wait a minute wait a minute mark I
don't think I know how to make these links appear horizontally just like a real web page.
OK so what I want you to do is I want you to pause his video.
And I want you to take this list here and I want you to make it horizontal using a table.
Mm hmm.
Cagas puzzle video and make this horizontal and get back to me.
Did you do it I know you didn't get second chance Pozza video.
Go do it.
Fellows you did do it.
I'll show you right now.
Let's make this let's put this into a table here which I think is a great idea.
So what we're going to do is just add another table.
OK.
And that's what I'm going to have one row.
So TR It's going to have three data three data columns in it.
So.
And all I'm going to do here is inside these TVs we're just going to command X and paste and then TDE
and a command X and paste these these links here.
OK.
These tags.
And then we're going to do one more time.
Inside of this.
Love it.
And then we'll go ahead and get rid of this unordered list.
Ooh look at that.
Look at that.
Now they're a little bit close right.
So we don't have to help us out.
But what we can do is we can go ahead and add some cell spacing.
So let's just go here at this table put in some cell spacing let's say 10 Boehme a little bit further
apart which is nice.
OK so 10 between each one.
I like it.
And there we go about Hohmann course.
Now we have a horizontal linked list here are links for our page which is pretty dang cool.
So we've got some courses here.
I'm really liking this.
I'm really liking.
Let's call this video done we've worked with tables.
OK we've worked with table rows we've worked with the table data inside of the table rows.
We put a little button in here we haven't talked about how to click the buttons and stuff but I think
that's a better conversation for when we get to javascript.
Right now we're just doing some static some static stuff here.
Doesn't do much.
And it's looking good coming together so let's call this done.
Mark Price you're at does Loeb's dotcom moving on and forward.